Now
Let us see what is the use of pointers.
Why does C, C++ languages have a pointers.
What is the purpose of pointers.
So I'm giving you a complete picture of the reason why we have pointers.
Let us see.
See already we know that a memory is divided into three sections when the program is executing.
Suppose you have your program that is your main function.
Then whatever you have written in this main function that gets converted into machine code and when you are running
it that the main function will be coded in the main function.
So I'm just taking Main function.
Now your program may be having a lot of other function but just say Main is a program main function
is a program.
OK.
Resume this.
Now this is a program actually this program that is there in code section so that program can access
which part of memory it can access the same code section or it can access stack.
These are the two places it can directly access and it cannot access any other thing in your entire computer
system.
So programming makes a policy that it will not access any other thing directly except code section
itself or stack whatever it is that inside the code section or the stack program can directly access
it.
This one thing then there is one more thing that is heap, can the  program directly access this heap.
no it cannot access it, then how  it can access the heap, indirectly it can access.
if suppose you have a pointer and that pointer can have the address of some memory in the heap.
So this point will help the main function of the program to access the heap area.
So program can access the stack from the stack you get a pointer, and go to the heap then it will
access heap.
Yes that's it.
So programming can access heap only using pointers indirectly.
So what is the use of pointer now, it is for accessing heap memory.
This is one reason then there are more.
Suppose you have a file on a disk.
A file is there.
On disk.
How this file can be accessed by a program.
Can it directly access.
No.
Again it can access it indirectly with the help of a pointer.
It needs a point out for accessing it.
file, we use file pointers for accessing files then if there is network connection how a program can access a
network connection using a pointer again.
If there is a keyboard and mouse or monitor all these things or a printer.
All of these things can be accessed by a program indirectly not directly but with the help both pointers
see accessing keyboard or moniter.
We don't do identically we will see and see also those objects internally use pointers for accessing
them so the concluding point is program a program can directly access.
directly means what, by with the help of address it directly go there and get the data.
Only two places.
What are those code section and the contents inside stack.
What about the rest of the things.
All can be accessed only using pointer so pointer is not just for one single purpose, pointer is useful
for accessing various things in your computer system, where as little bit, i will tell about  Java and C sharp languages
in these languages there are no pointers so they don't allow you to access these devices, through your
program, you cannot access them at all. you have to access them through JVM only our through common language
of run time in C sharp or dot net so you can not directly access them.
So there is no system programming possible using java and c sharp but I as c language in C++ language
have  pointers so they allow us to access all the devices so we can do system programming.
We can develop even operating system so we can develop the device drivers. only
The reason is we have pointers all right, so we will be looking at a few usages of pointers.
in our next video let us look at how we can access heap using pointers.